These smart cars are au-
tonomous in that they support features such as sensing the
surrounding environment, making quick and timely decisions,
navigating without human input on the road, maintaining
safe mobility patterns, performing all kinds of maneuvers,
and cruise control, to name a few.



[] An autonomous car refers
to a computer-controlled car that can guide itself, familiarize
itself with surroundings, make decisions, and fully operate
without any human interaction



The primary drivers behind the
emergence of autonomous cars include: the need for driver and
driving safety, growth in population, expanding infrastructure,
increase in the number of vehicles, the need for efficient time
management, and resource utilization and optimization.As the
human population grows and the number of cars increases, this
creates a stressful impact on our transportation infrastructure,
ranging from roads and parking spaces to fuel stations (for
fuel engines vehicles) and charging stations (for electric and
hybrid vehicles)




> SAFETY
To minimize human errors and
reduce life-threatening situations on the road, alternative tech-
nologies such as connected cars and autonomous cars are being
explored.
Autonomous cars are poised to reduce traffic accidents that
may occur due to inattentive drivers. However, an attentive
human driver will have strong capabilities of driving safely
in unforeseen environments as compared to a "machine."
Therefore, consumers may seem reluctant to put their faith in
a "machine" when deciding on circumstances where their lives
are at stake
 For instance, a human driver can become drowsy
during a long drive, whereas software does not. On the other
hand, complex software has its own traditional shortcomings
such as code defects, and non-traditional shortcomings such
as vulnerabilities and/or exploits
However, even with the use of
advanced technologies, human behavior and driving patterns
continue to play a pivotal role in safe driving



[] The idea of autonomous
cars started with "phantom autos" in the 1920s, where the
car was controlled through a remote control device [3]

[] It is important to draw a clear line between two conflicting
terms: the automated car and the autonomous car


> COMMUNICATION
 For instance,
the connected car uses a vehicular ad hoc network (VANET)
technology where an on-board unit (OBU) is installed on the
vehicle; and through the dedicated short-range communication
(DSRC) standard protocol [7], [8], vehicles can communicate
with each other when they are within their communication
range.
The applications and services provided by the VANET
technology and its successor VANET-based clouds [9], [10]
include, but are not limited to, accident warning, crash notifica-
tion, road construction, traffic signals, ambulance approaching
notification, excessive speed, black ice on the pavement, fog
warning, traffic information, Internet-on-the-move, movies-on-
demand, location-based services, cooperative cruise control,
and maneuver control
 According to the IEEE 802.11p
standard, vehicles share their location information such as
position, speed, acceleration, and other control information
with their neighbors. Therefore, inter-vehicular communica-
tion requires fine-grained input from other technologies such
as an accurate positioning mechanism, vehicular sensory infor-
mation, and efficient and accurate navigation. In this context,
world-leading auto manufacturers (along with academic re-
search efforts) have been developing and incorporating a wide
range of new features in their high-end cars.
In addition to environmental awareness, the autonomous car
communicates to several other entities that include roadside
infrastructure, neighbors (autonomous cars and contacted ve-
hicles), registration and management authorities, and service
providers
Connected car
technology is realized through Vehicular Ad hoc NETworks
(VANETs) where vehicles on the road communicate with
each other, with the infrastructure and with the environment
through different underlying communication technologies such
as, but not limited to, IEEE 802.11p, WiFi, LTE, visible light
communication (VLC), and so on.
We note that traditional
cars use the Controller Area Network (CAN) technology for
communication among different ECUs.
On the other hand, with the removal of human involvement,
autonomous cars have to make autonomous decisions based on
what is best in a particular circumstance. This characteristic
also requires the autonomous car to be more connected to the
surrounding environment and draw as much data as it can from
neighbors, infrastructure, and the Internet to make the best de-
cision. Therefore, communication is of pivotal importance for
the autonomous car
Connected vehicles and autonomous car technologies are
often considered as separate technologies but in fact they are
orthogonal to each other. Efficient coupling between these two
technologies reinforce their synergies towards better realiza-
tion of the intelligent transportation system. Vehicle-to-Vehicle
(V2V) and Vehicle-to-Infrastructure (V2I) communications
enable cars to cooperatively communicate with each other and
with infrastructure hardware devices such as RSUs to support
a plethora of applications [73], [74], [75]. The cooperation
among vehicles and infrastructure can be extended to different
applications such as cooperative platooning applications [76]
where cars exchange their mobility data to enable platoon-
ing, and cooperative traffic information system where cars
share their scheduled beacons to construct traffic views [77].
 For in-
stance, cooperative state estimation with trajectory information
sharing among autonomous cars can make navigation more
effective and smoother as well as help autonomous cars if
one of its subsystems fails. Other applications of cooperative
communication among autonomous cars include cooperative
localization through optimized sensor configuration and mo-
tion coordination [78]
This work considered LTE instead of other exist-
ing technologies to reduce the communication delay among
vehicles
 Visible Light Communication
(VLC) is also used in connected car environment with perfect
line of sight where transmitters and receivers are installed in
the headlights and tail lights of the cars [80]. VLC uses visible
light for both illumination and transmission of data in wireless
networks. However, VLC is still in its infancy and efficient
channel modeling is essential for it to meet the requirements of
connected car and autonomous car applications.
!!!!
In essence, connected cars lever-
age both cars and infrastructure as communication entities.
Furthermore, recently the integration of connected car with
cloud infrastructures has also resulted in new applications that
use cloud services [9].
!!!!
It is imperative that the autonomous car
leverages the benefits of cloud in different ways such as the ex-
ecution of sensor fusion algorithms, generating detailed map,
system diagnostics, history catalog, and other resource-hungry
machine and deep learning algorithms [14], [93]. However, the
communication delay incurred by the communication between
the autonomous car and the RSU and/or cloud infrastructure
make this approach less attractive for critical functions of
the autonomous car.
Therefore, the role of
the cloud infrastructure, at least at the moment, is limited
to value-added services and long-term behavior analysis of
the autonomous car whereas decision-making is carried out
locally at autonomous car in real time. In addition to cloud
computing, fog computing that extends the cloud paradigm to
the edges of the network, may be leveraged to provide real-
time services requiring low delays [94].




> POLLUTION
However,
this rate of adoption of vehicles also increases environmental
pollution and traffic congestion [14]. In 2010, our planet
was host to 1 billion vehicles, and this number is expected
to double by 2030; this creates an urgent need for more
resources and infrastructure support to host this vast increase
in the number of vehicles [15]. According to the World Health
Organization (WHO), around 1.25 million people die every
year due to road accidents [16], and WHO has projected that
the death toll could rise to 1.8 million by 2030 [15].



In contrast, the automatic transmission
system in cars took a long span of five decades for market
penetration, because of its high cost. After almost five decades,
the automatic transmission system’s quality was improved and
the cost reduced to such an extent that it became viable to use
in most automobiles. The same arguments hold for electric and
hybrid vehicles [21].



However, at the core of the autonomous car design is the major
requirement of being able to function autonomously. In other
words, the autonomous car requires features that will enable
it to foresee, decide, and move safely and reliably according
to some plan


For an autonomous car to move from point A to point B, it
needs to perform a series of steps: the car needs to perceive
and make itself aware of the surrounding environment, plan
the trip, navigate, and make controlled movements on the road.
The primary steps responsible for executing the aforemen-
tioned tasks in an autonomous car include:
1) situational and environmental awareness;
2) navigation and path planning; and
3) maneuver control.








> NAVIGATION / GUIDANCE
Navigation or guidance is of paramount importance in an
autonomous car, because its primary function is to enable the
car to travel on the desired path. When the autonomous car is
aware of its environment then it needs to plan its path based
on the destination. With the help of navigation hardware such
as the well-known global positioning system (GPS) module,
the car generates a path between the current position and
destination as a function of time
. Finally, the car moves based on the
path on the map that it has generated.
Furthermore, the path is dynamically re-calculated in case
of certain events such as road block, diversion, and so forth.
Road networks are physically pre-defined
and the autonomous car’s guidance system regularly checks
the car’s movement against the calculated path
During the course of its journey, the au-
tonomous car must maintain different kinds of maneuvers such
as lane keeping, bumper-to-bumper distance, sudden brakes,
overtaking, and stopping at traffic lights. 
The maps used by autonomous cars are different from the
maps generated by traditional GPS systems. These maps use
a lot of road details such as lane dimensions, distance from
pedestrians, and curb height. To store all these details, an au-
tonomous car needs enormous memory and processing power
(the memory and power needed also are directly proportional
to the length of the road)




AUTONOMIC CARS’ MAJOR BENEFITS
I. Improved Safety
II. Increasing Revenue
III. Ease of Use and Convenience
IV. Improving traffic conditions
V. Autonomous parking
VI. Consumer centric experience

Mobility-as-a-Service (MaaS) and car sharing are two
of the promising applications made possible through au-
tonomous cars without redundant human interactions. The
MaaS paradigm [36] will save many consumer resources,
including money, time, space, and even human resources
(such as drivers). Autonomous cars can be used as a resource
instead of owning a car, which will require not only a large
sum of money upfront but also a driver and a space to
park it. Furthermore, car sharing is a popular application
among consumers today. However, with the emergence of
autonomous cars, carpooling can become more efficient by
utilizing autonomous car resources more effectively

 By using
autonomous cars for carpooling services, we can eliminate
such costs. This change in perspective will not only create
economic advantages, but also decrease air pollution caused
by traffic situations in global metropolitan cities. It also creates
enormous business opportunities and transforms the mindset
of both consumers and service providers.



> TRAFFIC CONDITIONS
 Autonomous cars will increase per-vehicle
occupancy and decrease the number of vehicles on the road,
thereby improving traffic conditions. Furthermore, with human
drivers, inter-vehicle distance is a strict parameter to maintain
for safe driving. However, with autonomous cars, this distance
will potentially decrease, thereby providing more space on
the road. By carefully communicating with their counterparts,
autonomous cars could perform intelligent fleet management,
leading to reduced traffic jams on the roads. Additionally,
autonomous cars can also help in adhering to traffic laws more
accurately, thereby reducing the need for traffic police officers
on the road.



> FUEL EFFICIENCY
!!!!!!!!
From a different perspective, autonomous cars will also
improve fuel efficiency by selecting the best routes [37], which
will also decrease air pollution. Fuel efficiency is directly
proportional to the way people drive. Different drivers behave
differently behind the wheel. Some common driving behaviors
include over-speeding, irregular driving, starting and stopping,
and sudden braking that decrease fuel efficiency. In this case,
the autonomous car can be programmed to use a fuel-efficient
mode and avoid erratic driving behaviors that cause fuel ineffi-
ciency. Coordination and communication among autonomous
and connected cars will also help eliminate tailgating on the
road and unnecessary braking situations.
!!!!!!!









> SOCIAL ACCEPTANCE
othenbucher et al.
[83] designed a social experiment where they hid the driver
with a costume and installed fake LIDAR and other necessary
equipment on the car to look like a real autonomous car. The
experiment revealed that about 80% of the participants in the
experiment believed that the car was driving itself. The goal of
the study was to obtain data on user reaction to autonomous
car which will eventually help autonomous car designers to
design better interaction systems for users.


Control in autonomous car is different from conventional
control system. In case of autonomous car, different control
systems must interact in autonomous car to deal with the un-
predictable environment and thus-forth reaction of autonomous
car to the environment [86]. In other words, the central
control system of autonomous car depends on the context
which advocates for an adaptive control system. However,
knowledge of the context is essential for the control system
to act accordingly.

 Although this work only
focuses on connected cars, such joint control-communication
mechanism can enable the autonomous cars to react and adapt
to different road environments in both platoons and individual
autonomous cars.


!!!!
Cars that
usually focus only on their local environment and do not take
into account, what is going on around them, are referred to
as "ego-vehicles" as they consider only their current status,
speed, direction, and destination and so on [88
!!!!
. It is also
worth noting that with the advancements in vehicular net-
works and autonomous cars, the concept of ego-vehicle is
slowly fading away because of the need of communication
among autonomous cars and the environment


Existing decision-making mechanisms in autonomous cars
can be categorized into machine learning, deep learning, arti-
ficial intelligence, multi-policy decision making, and Markov
decision process [89], [90], [91], [92]. Although efforts
have been made to make the decision-making process of
autonomous cars reliable but there are too many external
factors to address all the issues. Therefore, decision making
needs to be addressed in a holistic way by the research
community by taking into consideration the potential of inter-
vehicular communication. As mentioned before, ego-motion
of autonomous cars will hinder the growth of autonomous car
technology. Therefore, inter-vehicle communication can play
a crucial role for cooperative crowdsensing, crowd-perception,
and neighbors’ behavior. In this context, the communicating
nodes (autonomous cars, ordinary cars, and other entities such
as pedestrians) will not only share information with each
other, but also the perception and driving decision which will
strengthen the capabilities of the decision-making process.
The decisions made in such a cooperative manner will have
global impact on the surrounding traffic rather than making
the individual trip of an autonomous car secure





Design and implementation issues:
A. Cost
B. Maps
C. Software Complexity
D. Simulation






> SIMULATION
One of the cheapest means of validation of a technology
and/or design is simulation. Autonomous car designers are
particularly interested in improving self-driving technology
because after rolling out the technology, there is no margin
for errors.
However,
reasonable efforts have been made to test autonomous cars’
functionality through existing simulator tools that simulate
different aspects of the autonomous cars, including mobility
dynamics, path testing, fuel economy, path planning, and so
forth [106], [107], [108], [109], [110], [111], [89], [112],
[113].
In essence, traffic simulators are used to test various aspects
of driving including mobility, behavior, traffic scenarios, and
lane keeping. Traffic simulations can be divided mainly into
two classes: macroscopic and microscopic simulations [114],
[115]. Macroscopic simulation models cover the abstract level
of details about the traffic situation derived from most of
the vehicles in use. In contrast, microscopic traffic simulators
model the individual vehicles’ behaviors. Both models have
their pros and cons. For instance, macroscopic models are fast
and require fewer resources, whereas microscopic simulation
models require more resources but provide better granularity
in terms of understanding the behavior of individual vehicles.
Furthermore, because microscopic simulation deals with in-
dividual vehicles, the simulation must be run many times to
obtain the required accuracy.
 We note that in the simulation
environment, real-world scenarios are oversimplified to cope
with computers’ resource constraints. It is difficult for the
simulators to capture all the details of actual, large, complex
road networks. Simulating kinematic behavior, sensors’ data
processing, and motion behavior of the autonomous car is still
a challenge for current state-of-the-art simulation tools
---SUMO
SUMO is free, and it was developed by the German
Aerospace Center (DLR). SUMO is based on two mobility
models: Krauss and Gipps models [127] [115]. The functional
architecture of SUMO is based on a continuous time-discrete
approach and it also allows the modeling of the intermodal
traffic system, including vehicles, public transport, and pedes-
trians. SUMO is a rich tool that supports route finding, network
import, and emission calculation in addition to the possibility
of enhancement with custom models. SUMO also provides
various application programming interfaces (APIs) to integrate
with different systems, and it can import road networks in dif-
ferent formats from map databases such as OpenStreetMap13
and other simulators such as Visum14, Vissim15, and NavTeq16
----



At the very basic level, the au-
tonomous car is operated by complex and sophisticated soft-
ware. The degree of complexity that goes into the software of
the autonomous car must be able to mimic the human brain
and/or behavior. The seriousness of a situation can be, at least
in part, compared with airplane manufacturers that build a safe
or at least fail-safe software for the airplane, although airplanes
are still somehow operated by human pilots.


The idea of self-driving cars is appealing but
equally alarming from security and privacy perspectives. In
September 2014, a consumer advocacy organization in the
United States warned that the legislation of the "robot car" in
California does not guarantee user privacy. The data collected
from autonomous cars contains personal data that may be
shared intentionally or unintentionally with others, putting the
user’s privacy at stake. When it comes to privacy, the following
five important questions should be answered with regard to
consumer satisfaction [24] in mind.
1) Who should control the data?
2) What type of data must be stored?
3) With whom will the collected data be shared?
4) In what form will the data be available?
5) For how long will the data be stored?




The autonomous car technology brings significant benefits
such as improved safety, traffic management, time manage-
ment, ease of access and so on




 An autonomous car’s overall
functional cycle falls into the following abstract categories:
situational awareness, planning, control, and actuation. The
major benefits of autonomous cars include, but not limited to,
improving safety for both passengers and outsiders (pedes-
trians and other vehicles), new business opportunities, ease
of use and convenience for people who cannot or do not
want to drive, improved traffic conditions, and creating a
consumer-centric experience.However, despite these benefits,
there are still design and implementation issues that need to
be addressed before commercial autonomous cars are fully
deployed on the road